You have two options here,
you have the challenging exercise or
the relaxed exercise.
The first exercise is reduce.
So reduce is one of those
methods like map and
filter that are core to the heart
of functional programming,
and even kind of pseudo functional
programming, which is what we're doing.
And so it's important to
understand how to use it.
The implementation is tough,
but very interesting.
Let me tell you how it works.
So reduce takes a collection,
and it takes a callback function.
And this function is going to or
reduce always returns
one value at the end.
So map, remember map returns
the length of an array the same length.
Each doesn't return anything,
filter will return based on that
truthy test that we pass it.
Reduce always returns one function.
So what it does is it will call,
it does loop though,
it loops through the collection,
calling that function.
And then based on whatever
that function returns,
it gets passed on back and
it gets accumulated.
So that function is gonna be
called each time with the past
value of the return of that function and
the next value in the loop.
Does that makes sense?
So as we're looping in,
we're calling this function.
Previously, we always call the function
with the current item index list, right?
In this case, we're gonna call it with
a previous value and the current value.
And take those two values and
it's gonna return one value together.
And the example that
everyone uses is addition.
Some argue it's because reduce is so
confusing that no one can figure out how
to do anything else except for
addition with it.
But here it is, so
we have a list with two items, 1 and 2.
Our callback function is gonna be
called with the previous value and
the current value.
So, the very first go around.
And this is the initial value.
You can also pass an initial value,
so the initial value,
Will be passed as an argument,
you add them together, 0 plus 1 is 1.
So sum is now 1, n is then 2.
1 plus 2 is 3.
So that's an example how reduce is used.
And here's a more complex example kind of.
So we have an initial value,
which is an object, okay?
And our function takes the result value,
key.
So the result, sorry, the initial
value is the result at first, right?
So we start with this,
result is an object.
And it says if result at value,
value is going to be 1 if the key is a.
You guys following?
Tell me to stop if I'm going too fast.
This is a little tricky.
This is a common pattern here
to say like if this exists,
then initialize it as 0,
otherwise, do something else.
So this says if it exists or
if it doesn't exist, yeah,
so if result at value is false,
is gonna go to the other side of this or,
and it's gonna initialize result value,
add an empty array.
Return that and it's gonna push the key.
If it already exists though,
it's just gonna return this and
then push the key to that.
Does that make sense
what this line is doing?
No, okay, we'll do it one more time.
So what this is doing is it's collecting
all of the keys that have the same value.
And, So what it's doing is it's
initializing an empty object.
And it's first checking,
is this value in our object already?
So, result empty object, the value for
the first property for
starting here, it's gonna be 1.
So we're saying result.1, does that exist?
No, it doesn't exist yet.
Okay, so
then we're gonna go to this side and
we're going to initialize result
value to be an empty array.
And then we're gonna push the key.
So result value is 1, is an empty array.
So we're creating this first array and
it's empty at first, and
then we're pushing the key and
that key is A.
And then we'll return that result, right,
which is an object that has a 1,
and an A, inside of a array, okay?
And then, We do it again, same object.
This time the value is gonna be 2,
again it's gonna initialize that,
and it creates this,
here, returns the result.
Now we have something that matches
this one and the result that value,
which is 1 already.
I'm sorry, it matches this one here.
And so we'll just instead of
initializing it, we'll push the key.
Okay, and then we return the result.
So that's reduce.
It's a little tricky.
So the challenge,
if you want a challenging task,
is to implement that under the hood has
this sort of like accumulation effect,
where it has a memory and
it passes it along every single time.
And then,
if you're feeling like it's late, and
you wanna relax a little bit,
we have eachRight, which is a for each,
except for instead of going from left
to right, you go from right to left.
So it's very relaxed.
>> At this point, yesterday, that was-
>> Seems like you would reverse the array
instead of have a function
that starts on the right.
>> Do you mean that's how you would
implement it is you would reverse
the arguments?
>> No, I'm just saying it just seems
weird for each array instead of doing for
each and
just reversing the order of the array.
>> Yeah, well,
if you reverse the order of the array,
if you're thinking about time complexity
and stuff, it can be expensive.
>> Yeah, it can,
if it's a huge array, I guess.
>> Yeah.
Yeah, it's just a thing to do if you
don't feel like implementing reduce.
However, reduce is pretty cool.
So I recommend doing that one,
even if it's intimidating and
I'll walk around and help.